A man suspected of carrying out a series of parcel bombings in the Texas capital Austin blew himself up Wednesday as police closed in, easing tensions in a city that had been on edge for weeks. Police said they surrounded Mark Conditt outside a hotel in the suburbs of Austin, where a series of bombings that began on March 2 killed two people and injured several others. The suspect detonated a device in his car and later died, Austin police chief Brian Manley said, bringing a dramatic end to the massive manhunt involving hundreds of federal agents and local police. "It has been a long almost three weeks for the community of Austin," Manley said. Police zeroed in on Conditt over the past 24 to 36 hours as evidence came in from video footage and witness accounts, Manley said. A sealed federal arrest warrant and criminal complaint had been filed Tuesday night, charging Conditt with one count of unlawful possession and transfer of a destructive device, the US Department of Justice said. The filings remained under seal as investigators continued to probe for possible accomplices and a motive. "The investigation continues because there's still outstanding questions," city Mayor Steve Adler told CNN. Authorities warned that Conditt may have planted other explosives before his death and urged the residents of Austin to remain vigilant. President Donald Trump offered his congratulations to police, writing on Twitter: "AUSTIN BOMBING SUSPECT IS DEAD. Great job by law enforcement and all concerned!" - Suspect's past - A contingent of law enforcement officers arrived at a home in the Austin suburb of Pflugerville that was reportedly Conditt's residence. Police evacuated areas near the home and detained the suspect's two roommates, according to Austin police. "One roommate was detained, questioned and released. The other is currently being questioned," the department tweeted. Sparse information about Conditt's past began to trickle out. The Houston Chronicle reported that Conditt grew up in a religious family, was homeschooled and briefly attended a local community college. News organizations found a 2012 blog with six postings attributed to Conditt, who would have been a teenager at the time of their publication. On it, Conditt described himself as "conservative." The posts, apparently part of a class assignment, argued against gay marriage, saying homosexuality was "not natural," supported the death penalty, and criticized the sex offender registry. Conditt's family released a statement to CNN saying they were unaware of "the darkness that Mark must have been in." "Our family is a normal family in every way. We love, we pray, and we try to inspire and serve others. Right now our prayers are for those families that have lost loved ones, for those impacted in any way, and for the soul of our Mark." - 'Deep breath' - CBS affiliate KEYE in Austin published what it said were photos taken from security cameras of the bombing suspect, wearing a blue baseball cap, gloves and possibly a wig of long, straw-blond hair as he dropped off packages Sunday at a FedEx office in Austin. One of the bombs went off early Tuesday at a FedEx sorting facility in Schertz, south of Austin. Texas Congressman Mike McCaul, who chairs the homeland security committee in the US House, told KXAN television that the suspect's use of FedEx opened a major break in the case. "Everything flowed from his going into this FedEx store, because from there we were able to ascertain who the individual was," McCaul said. Amid the lingering questions, residents of Austin -- a city of nearly one million people -- were contemplating the end of an ordeal they had lived with for three weeks. "I think everybody is taking a deep breath this morning. It's a little tempered by the fact that the investigation is not over yet," said Adler, the city's mayor. Miguel Alvarado, who was heading to a park with his son on Tuesday night, told AFP that the serial bombings had taken a toll. "People are a little shaken up," Alvarado said. Another resident, Ben Burroughs, was concerned about what police may yet find. "I'm also nervous about the devices that may still be out there," he told AFP. While life was likely to return to normal in the coming days, some families and neighborhoods were permanently altered. The first explosion on March 2 killed Anthony Stephan House -- a 39-year-old who grew up in the city and the father of an eight-year-old girl. House had started a money management company and worked as a project manager for two Texas-based firms. The second blast on March 12 killed 17-year-old Draylen Mason and critically injured his 41-year-old mother. Mason was a high school senior and a musician in a youth orchestra. He was headed to college. "There's a sense of grief about what happened," said one Austin resident who did not want to be identified. "It changes your sense of safety."